OK.
Async await.
This is one of the most exciting features that developers have been waiting for.
It is a way to write functions that contain promise oriented or asynchronous code that looks synchronous.
So what do I mean by this.
Well when we think back on our last lesson on promises and fetch we know that with our fetch call if
we were to write it with the style of promises that we would fetch our users and then we would get the
response we would call response that Jason which gives us back a promise which we then passed to our
then which now finally has our array of users we would then cast our first user Constance with the first
user object in our array we log it out.
So we see what our first user looks like and then we return fetch to this link right.
Which has posts except we set a year all parameter where the user I.D. is equal to our first user dot.
So we want all of the posts related to our first user.
And then we get back a response we convert to Jason again.
Right.
Which then we pass through into our next.
Then and then we console log of the final posts.
So it's a lot of things happening here and what this actually looks like for us if we copy this we go
back to our browser
and then we paste this in we see that what we get is our first user which gets logged and then we log
our final posts.
Right.
So this is pretty much stuff that we're familiar with when it came down to writing our code.
Now if we wanted to do this in async await the way that we would do it is we would cast a function called
My async function.
Right.
And we make it an async function by writing the async keyword and then we essentially write a function
anyway after.
Right.
So by saying async and then our function declaration javascript knows that we want to make an async
function now by using this async keyword within our async functional where now suddenly o allowed to
use the await keyword.
And what a weight does is it pauses the functions execution until what is being awaited is completed
and comes back with a value.
So what do I mean by this.
Well if we were to say a wait and then we want to fetch this value that we had above here any code down
here would wait until this fetch comes back with a value.
And the way that we would use that value is we're actually able to cast it to a constant because that's
what a weight does for us.
A weight takes that resolve promise value and then sets it to the concept that we declare it equal to.
So if I say this is my users response right now I have that same response object cast to this cost user
and any code following was waiting until this fetch completed.
Now we do this again with our actual users but we have to wait for our users response to be converted
to Jason because this is also an asynchronous method of converting it to Jason so this method returns
as a promise.
Right.
Which resolves with the final Jason value of our users which we cast to our cost to users and now we
can say cost first user equals users at zero.
Right.
Let's console log this first user as well actually let's just change it up and instead of our first
user we'll say second user.
Right.
So we'll use our second user and then we want are posts response equals to our fetch.
Right like so except we want to use our new second user
by our fetch we want to wait for it and then we want our posts to be a weight of our posts.
Response Dot.
J song and now finally we console log our posts by doing this.
This code reads more like synchronous code because we see oh there's just a variable declaration.
It's just waiting for are asynchronous requests to complete and then they cast their values right.
Resolve promise values to our concepts respectively.
So as we see this actually looks a lot like normal synchronous code that we were right.
Now let's see if this works so let's copy this and then let's just paste it in and let's call my async
function.
And we see there is our second user and there's our posts related to our second user.
So this is what a single way allows us to do.
So both methods are valid when it comes to tackling this kind of a synchronous problem specifically
what we were trying to solve was that we had code that was dependent on an asynchronous code above it
right to complete before it could actually run.
What do I mean.
Well we were not able to fetch our second user's posts without having a second user in the first place
and getting our second user was dependent on fetching a list of users first.
Right.
This code is asynchronous.
We did not know when that would complete.
This could have taken half a second or could have taken 3 seconds depending on multiple factors.
Now both are valid because this structure of promise chaining is just like a wait each then is waiting
for the previous ones then callback to complete.
So this return of this promise.
This whole chain is waiting for this.
Then block to complete and this fetch to complete resolve or reject but with async await we're able
to write it in such a way that it resembles more of the synchronous code that we're used to writing
because we're able to cast these constants right which are just equal to a weighted values of these
function method calls.
So in a way you can do both.
It doesn't matter it's just which one is more readable which one is more reusable now.
One thing I have not yet talked about with async away is error handling.
We know with our promise chain that if we do a dot catch right here we are able to handle our errors.
If an error occurs at any of these ends this catch will catch the error for all of them right.
If any of these reject this catch we'll be there for it.
How do we do that with an async await function.
Well what we have to do is use a javascript try catch block and what that looks like is just this.
We have a try keyword with a block of code and then there's a catch keyword with our error.
And then the second block so we put the code that we want to like we want to run inside of our tribe
block and then in the catch if any error occurs in this tribe block any promises reject any of the stuff
with our fetch that fails right.
Then this catch code will run and that error is what we'll get passed in here.
So if we wanted to console log there was an error we are able to handle our errors this way.
So if we were to try this and let's say we just mis type this string write.
Now if I call my function
we will see that our error got thrown.
So while this code ran it's because up until this point this code was all valid.
But the moment that this error occurred at this fetch it through the error it paused the execution.
Right it doesn't keep going.
And then it just throws.
So this is how async await works.
And just like that you now know the two ways of handling asynchronous events.